When we talk about Compose, there's two parts to that
puzzle. There is the Docker Compose command line,
and then there is the Compose file format.
A lot of times when I'm going back and forth between them,
I'll say the Compose CLI for the command line, and
I'll say Compose file for the file format.
Because these can be used separate and together to do
different things.
The Compose CLI is largely
focused around developer workflows.
That is, you working on your local machine, or maybe on
a server, but you're actually developing the software,
and testing it, creating some automation for your
test maybe. But, it's not really designed for production.
We'll talk more about that throughout this section and
course.
The CLI talks to the Docker daemon, so it's a
replacement in a lot of cases.
In fact, in my day-to-day work, it is the
command line tool I use all day.
It's rare that I use the Docker binary
to talk to the engine.
When you think of the Docker Compose command line, just
think of it as an alternative to the Docker CLI.
It's easier to use when you have multiple,
complex container deployments, you know, when you've got a
bunch of settings. In fact, if you just look at this
example command, this would be me running a typical
Node developer environment of a single container.
You can already see lots of complexity in here, right.
We've got ports we need to open.
We've got volumes we need to mount.
We have environment settings we need to build before
we actually deploy the container.
This is a lot of stuff, right.
So most people, if they didn't have Compose, would be
creating shell scripts in order to wrap this complexity
up, because we don't want have to type this every day,
right. So, this Compose command
line was largely spun out of the idea of let's not create
more scripts to solve this problem.
Let's create a tool that automates this workflow in a more
declarative way.
I'm always going to recommend you use the Docker CLI
locally for development instead of the regular
Docker command line, and we'll only use the Docker command
line when there's maybe not a Compose command line
equivalent. Lastly, ideally,
you're not using the Docker Compose command line in
production on servers.
You might use it for testing on servers.
But really, when you go production, in a lot of cases,
you're going to want multiple servers for some redundancy.
That's where orchestrators do well, such as
Swarm or Kubernetes.
In fact, later in the section, there's a lecture on
the benefits of considering something like Swarm, instead
of using Docker Compose, even when you're just doing one
server.